Chukwuka Victor Obionwu
Fakult¨at f¨ur Informatik
Otto von Guericke Universit¨at
Magdeburg, Germany
obionwu@ovgu.de
Damanpreet Singh Walia
Fakult¨at f¨ur Informatik
Otto von Guericke Universit¨at
Magdeburg, Germany
damanpreet.walia@ovgu.de
Taruna Tiwari
Fakult¨at f¨ur Informatik
Otto von Guericke Universit¨at
Magdeburg, Germany
taruna.tiwari@st.ovgu.de
Tathagatha Ghosh
Fakult¨at f¨ur Informatik
Otto von Guericke Universit¨at
Magdeburg, Germany
tathagata.ghosh@st.ovgu.de
David Broneske
Fakult¨at f¨ur Informatik
German Center for Higher Education
Research and Science Studies
Hannover, Lower Saxony, Germany
broneske@dzhw.eu
Gunter Saake
Fakult¨at f¨ur Informatik
Otto von Guericke Universit¨at
Magdeburg, Germany
saake@iti.cs.uni-magdeburg.de
Abstract—Project
Partner
preferences,
and
the
breakdown
of team projects has been a challenge both in industry, and
university settings. While the consequence is severe in industrial
settings, the loss of time, and invested effort in scenarios
where university course project breaks down leads to distrust
among members and eventual failure in some cases. Thus,
it becomes necessary, the acquisition of Colaboratory skills
which according to literature is acquired via collaboration with
partners whose behaviors cancel out each other’s eccentricities.
To this end, industry stakeholders have invested enormous
resources on the development of user predictive models that
optimally predict the outcome of a collaborative engagement.
While this strategy is effective, government policies restrict
its implementation in institutions of higher learning, thus
making collaboration modelling challenging. Ergo, the objective
of this endeavor investigation of noninvasive strategies for
eliciting individual preferences that affect collaboration and
the development of study recommendation partner system.
Consequent on the literature review, we have employed a big
five-oriented questionnaire input which is passed through a
personality based similarity system based on collaborative
filtering and utility-based recommendation system. Findings
show that generated teams are academically balance which is
the main objective of the study recommendation partner system.
Index Terms—Recommendation Systems, Big Five, Collaboration
in Teams
I. INTRODUCTION
In recent times, recommendation systems have become ex-
tremely common as it facilitates the discovery and accessibility
of choices or options that ordinarily will be difficult to access.
Thus, the commercial has invested significantly in the research
and development of different varieties of these systems. This
has not been the trend in the educational sector. In the course
of an academic semester, student are normally requested to
form project groups. Withing these groups, some thrive in
collaborative settings, while others work best alone. Thus,
it becomes important, the knowledge of how team members
dispositions, what they value most, their strengths, their weak-
nesses, and their communication style. As it can potentially
assist teams in being more productive. It is also a frequent
occurrence that teams break down as a result of individual dif-
ferences in personality and decision-making, which ultimately
results in the failure of the assigned responsibilities, and tasks.
Thus, it becomes necessary, a team member recommendation
system for course projects. Several past efforts have been
made at creating questioners, and models that near accurately
elicits an individual’s personality. One of such is the Big Five
personality model [1].
The Big Five personality model [1] based questionnaire is
implemented to learn about and assess the individual’s per-
sonality based on their self evaluation with respect to a batch
of questions and puzzles [2]. The responses are weighted
using likert scales that evaluate whether they strongly agree
to strongly disagree to a particular question. The individual’s
responses are then summed up to derive a score. These scores
will indicate the effect a given individual’s deposition, or
personality, will have on a team collaborating on a course
project. We will give more details on this in later sections.
The information derived from questioners is then fed into a
recommendation system.
Basically, there are three approaches employed in implement-
ing a recommendation system: collaborative filtering, content-
based filtering, and hybrid approaches that eliminate the draw-
backs of individual methods. Collaborative filtering is based
Towards A Strategy for Developing a Project
Partner Recommendation System for University
Course Projects
2023 6th World Conference on Computing and Communication Technologies
144
978-1-6654-6146-7/23/$31.00 ©2023 IEEE
2023 6th World Conference on Computing and Communication Technologies (WCCCT) | 978-1-6654-6146-7/23/$31.00 ©2023 IEEE | DOI: 10.1109/WCCCT56755.2023.10052282
Authorized licensed use limited to: Otto-von-Guericke Universitaet Magdeburg. Downloaded on April 01,2025 at 10:54:50 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

on the premise that people are not likely to change their
past choices concerning past interests. Thus, future recom-
mendations on new items are generated based on how similar
these items are to past preferences. Content-based filtering
approaches are based on a characterization of the object to be
recommended, and the user’s preferences. We found collabora-
tive filtering to be a more effective recommendation system, as
it allowed the classification of potential team members based
on human behavior scores [3]. Thus, students that share similar
personality types are grouped to work together. This strategy
is further reinforced by literature. [3].
In general, We consider we derive an individual student’s
academic scores and a threshold academic score. Applying
utility-based recommendation, students are grouped into teams
in such a way that the final team falls within the range of the
threshold academic score [4]. The paper proceeds as follows.
The next section introduces studies related to our work.Section
III deals with the implementation of our system, and section IV
provides insight into our algorithm. In section V, we describe
the system schematic. In section VII, we propose strategies
for improvement, and in section VIII, we summarize our
contributions, and indicate directions for future efforts.
II. RELATED STUDIES
The commerce and industrial sector has seen the deployment
of several recommendation systems. While this is not the case
in the educational sector, recent adoption of the flipped, and
full online learning instructional model has created a demand
for project partner recommendation systems. Thus in the
following, we summarise the state of the art implementations
and related proposals.
Wenting et al., [5], proposed and studied the problem of
recommending activity partners to web-users. In their study,
their participants were shown how to leverage readily available
data on activity attendance preferences from users in their
circle, the social context of potential activities, and respective
historical preferences. Their proposed methodology leverages
past partner knowledge of users. Their findings, elicited via
questionnaires, indicate that real users have great interest
receiving activity recommendations. Compared to our strategy,
we employ the big five personality models for the elicitation
of potential partner personality. We then recommendation
is generated by matching personality attributes that foster
academic engagement. Asabere et al. [6] merged collaborative
filtering based on user, and their social relations to recommend
conference presentation session venues.
Yang et al., [7] proposed a social recommendation system to
assist undergraduate students in their effort to find research
project teams in an academic collaboration network. The
system creates students profiles from their curriculum vitae,
and known social connections in an academic collaboratory
network. Using this profile, unsuitable research projects are
filtered out recommended, leaving choices that match the
students’ profile. Conversely,our strategy employes sets of
standardised questions to elicit latent personality attributes that
are known to influence an individuals behaviour in an aca-
demic collaboratory setting in the form of scores. These scores
enable the matching and creation of team project groups. A
further effort by Manoj et al., [8] proposed an approach to
solve the challenge of identifying suitable experts who should
be involved in design decision making process in architectural
knowledge management. In their strategy, a machine-learning
technique, and an ontology-based approach is used to identify
design decisions, and respective architectural elements.
In the next section, we give a background description for our
strategy
III. BACKGROUND FOR OUR STRATEGY
Several strategies have been proposed for the implementation
of partner recommendation systems, and vital for the realiza-
tion of these systems is the elicitation of the behaviour or
character of the individuals to whom partners needs to be
recommended. Being a self assessment process, the elicitation
of an individuals character, several questionnaires have been
designed to near accurately characterize and individual. Chief
among them are the big three, and big five personality models.
In comparison to the big three models, the big five personality
model gives a clearer classification of an individuals personal-
ity because it recognizes broader traits of a person, namely
neuroticism, agreeableness, conscientiousness, extraversion,
and openness [9], [10]. These characteristics broadly encom-
pass most of the narrow traits. Big five personality models
utilize lexical sampling and are better reflective of a person’s
group interactions and socialization. [1] Marvin Zuckerman
conducted a comparative study between the big three and
big five models using questionnaire reliability assessment
and factor analysis, which revealed that conscientiousness is
positively correlated, and forms the basis of human social
interaction [1], [11]. While there were efforts in the area of
intelligent quotient tests, mathematical and reasoning question-
ers that gives insight on an individual’s overall ability to adapt
to new situations. The emergence of emotional quotient (EQ),
creative quotient (CQ), and other quotients demonstrated that
IQ is not the only basis for understanding human behavior
in a given situation. Furthermore, ”The Complete Book Of
Intelligence Tests” by Philip Carter [2], uses questionnaires
to identify various types of intelligence. Our questionnaire
is based on this literature, and is mapped to the big five
personality models [12]. Toughness and tenderness questioner
[12] are associated with agreeableness, while optimists and
pessimists are associated with neuroticism. Openness is related
to both success and risk. Managing people and resources
is frequently regarded as conscientious while extraversion is
linked with communication and role [2]. In general, human
behavior and personality are inextricably linked, and people’s
interests and tastes are frequently the results of their personal-
ity or consistent behavior. Teamwork is closely associated with
personality. Individuals with similar personalities are likely
to share interests and behaviors. As a result, they are more
compatible with working in a collaborative environment [3].
This serves as the foundation for our collaborative filtering-
145
Authorized licensed use limited to: Otto-von-Guericke Universitaet Magdeburg. Downloaded on April 01,2025 at 10:54:50 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

based recommendation system, which groups students with
similar personality traits to collaborate more effectively and
deliver the desired results.
A. Big Five Personality Traits
Fig. 1: Big five personality traits with questionnaire [13]
The big five personality traits have been identified to be more
closely related to academic performance [14]. According to
the Big Five personality predictors of post secondary academic
performance, these five characteristics have a positive or neg-
ative correlation with academic performance [15]. The results
show that conscientious students perform better academically
than those who are not conscientious due to their motivation.
Because of emotional instability, neuroticism has been found
to be negatively associated with academic performance; how-
ever, this is not the case for students who have a healthy
mindset. Openness and extraversion produce mixed results,
with extraversion influencing student performance when class-
room engagement is required [16]. According to the findings
of the study, agreeableness is not a significant predictor of
a student’s academic performance, implying little correlation
with academics [17].
The questionnaire is created using specific characteristics that
correspond to the big five personality traits.
• Extraversion - One of the Big Five personality qualities
is extraversion. It is linked to those who are outspoken,
friendly, and assertive. Sometimes it has no effect on
students’ behavior, depending on the situation [18]. A
form of questionnaire that is related to extraversion is
the communicating and role questionnaire. Students who
perform better on this section are more extroverted than
those who score low [19] .
• Neuroticism - Being emotionally stable is a trait known
as neuroticism. It shows that emotionally healthy stu-
dents outperform emotionally unstable students in the
classroom [17] . This trait is related to the optimist and
pessimist questionnaire. Students with better scores have
a tendency to be more optimistic and have a positive
outlook for the future than students with lower scores
[2].
• Agreeableness - Being agreeable is one of the attributes
that shows if a person is kind and courteous. It is linked to
whether pupils act in a tough or sensitive manner. Despite
the fact that there is some connection to academia [17].
Additionally, it affects how a team is formed and how
well it performs. Students who scored lower in this part
are tender, whereas those who scored better overall are
tougher [2].
• Conscientiousness - Conscientiousness reveals a person’s
level of organization and discipline. Additionally, it has
been discovered that students with higher levels of con-
scientiousness surpass those with lower levels in terms of
academic performance [17]. Additionally, it demonstrates
the strongest correlation between all five personality
characteristics [17]. Managing people and resources is
covered on the conscientiousness questionnaire. Students
who score higher on this part of the questionnaire are
classified as conscientious [20].
• Openness - Openness is a sign of a person’s receptivity. It
reveals whether someone is willing to face challenges and
take risks. This element has only had a minor effect on
how well students work together as a team [17]. Success
and risk assessments are included in this wider Big Five
model trait. Higher scorers on this questionnaire are more
inclined to take chances, and vice versa is true for lower
scorers [2].
Cold start problems are frequently associated with collabora-
tive filtering (CF), but using CF to recommend teams based on
personality assessment overcomes this limitation. According
to this approach, human behavior is strongly intertwined with
its decision-making pattern [21]. This demonstrates the in-
terdependence of personality, decisions, learning preferences,
and interests [3], [22]. In the proposed collaborative filtering
of students’ responses for personality, assessments are stored
in the form of a vector and processed to provide a team
recommendation [23].
IV. IMPLEMENTATION
Our strategy is a two part technique. In the first technique, we
use a collaborative filtering (CF) recommender system tech-
nique as it is the most widely used recommendation method
[3], and highly suitable for our context, where a student’s per-
sonality profile serves as input, for similarity evaluation with
other students personality profile. We further employed the
unsupervised machine learning algorithm, K-Nearest Neigh-
bors (KNN), as there was no labeled data available due to
privacy concerns. Thus using the strategy, we generated a
student similarity matrix for the CF recommender [24]. In
the second technique, Utility-based (UB) recommender system
with a utility function that predicts academic scores based on
student personality profile is a used while we use collaboration
filtering recommender system as a baseline for comparison
as it does not take personality-based academic performance
146
Authorized licensed use limited to: Otto-von-Guericke Universitaet Magdeburg. Downloaded on April 01,2025 at 10:54:50 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

Personality
profile
User
Questionnaire
Responses
Recommender 1
Recommender 2
Personality-based
Similarity
KNN
algorithm
Calculate academic
score

 


Academic score
based team
formation
Team formation
algorithm
Recommend k-
similar users
Recommend n-
membered teams
Create personality profile
(tr  - th). p
Academic score =
Fig. 2: Recommendation Methodology
into consideration. To measure utility where multiple attributes
are responsible in decision making, we formulated a Multi-
Attribute Utility (MAU) function [25].
A. Method description
The process of generating recommendations using the stu-
dent’s personality questionnaire responses is depicted in Fig
1. As shown in Fig 1., the CF recommender and UB rec-
ommender are named Recommender 1 and Recommender 2
respectively.
• Build Student Personality Profile
Big 5 questionnaires are used to collect student responses.
student responses are given scores from 1 to 5 and
accumulated to calculate the student’s traits score. Dif-
ferent ranges of scores are provided by researchers to
identify qualities and narrow traits. Threshold, 50% of
total trait score, helps in classifying the genetic trait of the
student example, optimist or pessimist [2]. The student
personality profile is complete once response scores are
assigned and trait scores are calculated and stored in
memory, as shown in Fig 3.
Personality
profile
User
Questionnaire
Responses
Create personality profile
Calculate Trait
 score
Score each 
response
Personality Profile
Fig. 3: Build Student Personality Profile
• Recommender Systems
The software technique which we are using to suggest
items is known as Recommender Systems. Here, items
that are being recommended are a team or members of
the team.
Recommender
1:
Collaborative
Filtering
Recom-
mender System
CF recommender system is the baseline recommender
system, as it is depicted in Fig 4. CF recommender
system works by finding similarities in students’ response
patterns and recommending students with high similarity
scores to be on the same team. KNN algorithm, an unsu-
pervised machine learning technique, is used to create a
similarity score matrix. The cosine similarity function is
selected to calculate the similarity score. As KNN algo-
rithm works with vectors, thus student response vector is
fetched from student personality profile’s response scores.
Considering each response score as one dimension, a
high-dimensional vector for all the students is formed and
fed to the CF recommender system. Vector dimensions
are equal to total questions [26].
Student response vector:
⃗
response = [tr1 res1, ....., tr1 resN, tr2 res1, .....,
tr2 resN, tr3 res1, ....., tr3 resN, tr4 res1, ....., tr4 resN,
tr5 res1, ....., tr5 resN]
where,
⃗
response = response vector of a student, trN resN
= Nth response score of Nth Trait of a student.
Recommender 1
Personality-
based
Similarity
KNN
algorithm
Recommend k-
similar users
Input :
Student response vector
Fig. 4: Recommender 1: Collaborative Filtering Recommender
System
Each student will receive recommendations of k other
147
Authorized licensed use limited to: Otto-von-Guericke Universitaet Magdeburg. Downloaded on April 01,2025 at 10:54:50 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

students who have a high degree of similarity based on
their response scores.
Recommender 2: Utility-Based Recommender System
On the other hand, the UB recommender (Fig 5) takes the
student’s trait scores and calculates an academic score for
each student using the utility function (f).
Student trait score vector:
⃗
trait
=
[trait scr1,
trait scr2,
trait scr3,
trait scr4,
trait scr5]
Threshold vector:
⃗
threshold = [thresholdtrait1, thresholdtrait2, thresholdtrait3,
thresholdtrait4, thresholdtrait5]
Correlation vector:
⃗ρ = [ρtrait1, ρtrait2, ρtrait3, ρtrait4, ρtrait5]
Academic score:
f = ( ⃗
trait −
⃗
threshold) . ⃗ρ
where,
⃗
trait = trait score vector of a student,
⃗
threshold
= threshold of each trait, ⃗ρ = academic and personality
trait correlation [4].
A team formation algorithm is used to form k-member
teams with similar academic score averages. This k-
member team is later recommended to the student. The
deviation used by this algorithm is determined by trait
and threshold. Furthermore, the product of the trait vector
and correlation is used to determine academic score. A
recommendation is made to create a balanced team based
on each student’s academic scores. Here, the academic
score is taken from the previous algorithm and a team size
is specified. This algorithm uses statistical means based
on the calculated academic scores to formulate teams with
similar scores.
Input Student trait
 score, correlation,
 threshold vectors
Recommender 2
Calculate
academic score

 


Academic score
based team
formation
Team formation
algorithm
Recommend n-
membered teams
(tr  - th). p
Academic score =
Fig. 5: Recommender 2: Utility-Based Recommender System
V. ALGORITHM DESCRIPTION
Algorithm 1 Utility function: Academic score algorithm
Require:
⃗
trait,
⃗
threshold, ⃗ρ
1:
⃗
deviation =
⃗
trait −
⃗
threshold
2: Academic Score =
⃗
trait.⃗ρ
3: return Academic Score
Algorithm 2 Team formation algorithm
Require: Dictionary {student: Academic Score}, team size
Ensure: length(Dictionary) ̸= 0
1: Initialize list all teams
2: while length(Dictionary) > 0 do
3:
Initialize lists team and scores
4:
mean tolerance = 0
5:
total mean ←mean(Dictionary)
6:
team
append
key.Dictionary[0],
scores
append
value.Dictionary[0]
7:
DeleteDictionary[0]
8:
while
(length(team)
>
team size)
&
(length(Dictionary) > 0) do
9:
scores append next value.Dictionary[0]
10:
mean score ←mean(scores)
11:
if mean −tolerance ≤mean score ≤mean +
tolerance then
12:
team append key.Dictionary[index(0)]
13:
Delete key and value of Dictionary[index(0)]
14:
break
15:
else
16:
scores.pop()
17:
end if
18:
end while
19:
if length(team) no change then
20:
increase tolerance
21:
end if
22:
all teams append team
23: end while
24: return all teams
VI. SYSTEM SCHEMATIC
The several tools and technologies utilized are Visual Studio,
PHP, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, and Python Libraries to
deliver the optimized web application to the students.
We implemented the accessibility of the web application for
administrators and students. The implementation diagram of
the system is shown below.
A. Administrator accessibility
The admin has a dashboard that shows the total number
of students and recommended teams, as well as access to
all student details. Administrators have more privileges than
students, such as the right to modify, create, or delete ques-
tionnaires for all the categories i.e. Tough or tender, Optimist
or pessimist, Success, and Risk, Communicating and Role,
148
Authorized licensed use limited to: Otto-von-Guericke Universitaet Magdeburg. Downloaded on April 01,2025 at 10:54:50 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

Fig. 6: Schematic representation of implementation
and Managing people and resources [2], [27]. Admin can also
visualize all students’ personality assessments in the form of
radar graphs and academic scores. Via the SQLValidator [28],
The supervisor has access to each of the recommended teams
based on both recommendation techniques.
• Admin dashboard - The total number of students reg-
istered in the web application is displayed on the ad-
min dashboard; this information is relevant to estimate
the number of students who have registered and want
to participate in the questionnaire. It also includes the
number of teams that have been suggested using utility-
based filtering. It keeps track of the number of teams
that are specifically created with participation from every
student based on their academic performance.
• student dashboard - The student dashboard, which
is linked via the admin dashboard’s students tile, and
can also be accessed from the sidebar menu contains
information about all registered students, including their
names, email addresses, and calculated academic scores.
• Teams - Collaborative filtering and utility-based rec-
ommendations are the two forms of recommendations
that have been employed in teams. One recommendation
includes the students’ recommendations for a specific
student based on their questionnaire responses. It brings
together the students with comparable personality traits.
As a result, a single student may receive several similar
student recommendations. To access the radar map of the
student for whom the recommendation is made, an action
button is also provided for the admin in this dashboard.
• Radar chart - Based on the types of questionnaires that
have been used, this radar is created using the big five
personality traits. It displays a graphical representation of
Fig. 7: Academic score of all students : Admin View
the student’s personality. These tests are divided into five
categories. For each questionnaire, the students’ weighted
responses are stored. For each category of the question-
naire, the student input is normalized and graphically
shown.
The implementation of utility-based filtering is a further
recommendation. It has been recommended based on
academic performance in order to create a balanced
team that can successfully execute the team project. This
recommendation is unique because it has been produced
in order to meet the team’s academic score threshold,
149
Authorized licensed use limited to: Otto-von-Guericke Universitaet Magdeburg. Downloaded on April 01,2025 at 10:54:50 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

Fig. 8: Personality Overview: Radar Chart
taking into account all the students.
• Questions - Administrators have extra privileges in the
question’s dashboard that let them edit and remove
already-existing questionnaires, as well as add new ones
to the list. This gives the administrator additional flexi-
bility to broaden the scope of the questionnaire.
B. student accessibility
Students’ privileges are rather limited, as they can only fill out
questionnaires and receive their own personality assessment
in the form of radar charts. A student’s visibility is limited to
teams that are linked to that student for both recommendation
techniques.
• Personality overview - After logging into the account,
the dashboard presents a radar graph of that individual
student’s personality assessment based on questionnaires
of the big five personality.
• Team - It is a menu that displays recommendations
determined through collaborative filtering and utility [29].
The only difference in this scenario is that just the teams
with the specific logged-in students are displayed. The
list of all the teams for both suggestions is only visible
to the admin.
• Questionnaire - This is a list of all the questions the
administrator has included in the questionnaires. Students
are not informed of the category that a given question
belongs to. Students can choose between strongly agree-
ing and strongly disagreeing in their responses [30]. As
soon as the students have marked each questionnaire,
the responses are saved. These responses are afterwards
quantified and analyzed in order to recommend a partic-
ular team.
C. Team generation
The team is generated by a python script in the back end.
The admin generates this after all students have completed
the questionnaire and their individual assessments are available
to the admin. To provide optimal teams, we used two types
of recommendation methods that took into account individual
personalities and academic scores.
VII. EVALUATION AND RESULT
Both recommendation systems are implemented independently
of one another, taking into account different factors and pro-
ducing results for the team recommendation. Both have merits
and drawbacks. The collaborative filtering recommendation
provides a list of k similar students who can collaborate
constructively [3]. This filtering has a high dimension be-
cause it considers all five major personality traits as well
as student responses, thereby taking into account inherent
human behavior and attitude. However, this is not associated
with the student’s academic performance. It is entirely de-
termined by their personality assessment. As a result, based
on personality assessment, a single student can have multiple
recommendations with whom it is closely related. As a result,
the student has more options for selecting teammates. This
provides dependability in terms of team collaboration.
Fig. 9: Recommender 1: Collaborative filtering Recommender
results
Utility-based recommendation ranks teams solely on academic
performance. This means that the recommended team is aca-
demically balanced. However, it does not take into account the
students’ personalities. As a result, this takes narrow aspects
into account. This recommendation provides unique teams
based on individual academic scores, limiting students’ options
for team selection. The main advantage of this team is that
the team’s overall threshold academic score is balanced. As a
result, it provides dependability in terms of task completion.
VIII. SUMMARY AND FUTURE WORK
In this paper, the investigation on the relationship between aca-
demics, and personality is conducted, and research findings led
to the formulation of a utility function that predicts academic
performance based on student profile built using the Big 5
personality model. To evaluate the utility-based recommen-
dation system, we first implemented a baseline collaborative
filtering recommender, and the results of both recommenders
were discussed. A major challenge in the evaluation was the
150
Authorized licensed use limited to: Otto-von-Guericke Universitaet Magdeburg. Downloaded on April 01,2025 at 10:54:50 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

Fig. 10: Recommender 2: Utility-Based Recommender’s Re-
sult
lack of a labeled dataset because of privacy concerns. This
challenge resulted in performing only functional and meta-
comparisons between the two recommender systems. Our
future work consists of optimizing academic correlations using
reinforcement learning, and improving academic performance
perdition by adding more impacting features.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
We thank all reviewers for their constructive feedback. This
work was supported by the German Federal Ministry of
Education and Research [grant number 16DHB 3008].
REFERENCES
[1] M. Zuckerman, D. M. Kuhlman, J. Joireman, P. Teta, and M. Kraft,
“A comparison of three structural models for personality: the big three,
the big five, and the alternative five.” Journal of personality and social
psychology, vol. 65, no. 4, p. 757, 1993.
[2] P. Carter, The complete book of intelligence tests: 500 exercises to
improve, upgrade and enhance your mind strength.
John Wiley &
Sons, 2009.
[3] R. Hu and P. Pu, “Enhancing collaborative filtering systems with
personality information,” in Proceedings of the fifth ACM conference
on Recommender systems, 2011, pp. 197–204.
[4] M. C. O’Connor and S. V. Paunonen, “Big five personality predictors
of post-secondary academic performance,” Personality and Individual
differences, vol. 43, no. 5, pp. 971–990, 2007.
[5] W. Tu, D. W. Cheung, N. Mamoulis, M. Yang, and Z. Lu, “Activity-
partner recommendation,” in Pacific-Asia Conference on Knowledge
Discovery and Data Mining.
Springer, 2015, pp. 591–604.
[6] X. Yang, S. Yuan, and Y. Tian, “Assistive clothing pattern recognition
for visually impaired people,” IEEE Transactions on Human-Machine
Systems, vol. 44, no. 2, pp. 234–243, 2014.
[7] Y. Liu, C. Yang, J. Ma, W. Xu, and Z. Hua, “A social recommendation
system for academic collaboration in undergraduate research,” Expert
Systems, vol. 36, no. 2, p. e12365, 2019.
[8] M. Bhat, K. Shumaiev, K. Koch, U. Hohenstein, A. Biesdorf, and
F. Matthes, “An expert recommendation system for design decision
making: Who should be involved in making a design decision?” in 2018
IEEE International Conference on Software Architecture (ICSA). IEEE,
2018, pp. 85–8509.
[9] J. M. Kummerow and N. L. Quenk, Understanding your MBTI step II
results.
Consulting Psychologists Press (3803 E. Bayshore Rd., Palo
Alto 94303), 2003.
[10] H. Fanaee-T and M. Yazdi, “A semantic vsm-based recommender
system,” arXiv preprint arXiv:1406.3277, 2014.
[11] T. Ogawa, K. Morita, M. Fuketa, and J.-i. Aoe, “The determination
of affirmative and negative intentions for indirect speech acts by a
recommendation tree,” International Journal of Advanced Computer
Science and Applications, vol. 4, no. 8, 2013.
[12] O. P. John, S. Srivastava et al., “The big-five trait taxonomy: History,
measurement, and theoretical perspectives,” 1999.
[13] G. Liapis, K. Zacharia, K. Rrasa, A. Liapi, and I. Vlahavas, “Modelling
core personality traits behaviours in a gamified escape room environ-
ment,” in European Conference on Games Based Learning, vol. 16,
no. 1, 2022, pp. 723–731.
[14] M. Komarraju and S. J. Karau, “The relationship between the big five
personality traits and academic motivation,” Personality and individual
differences, vol. 39, no. 3, pp. 557–567, 2005.
[15] Q. E. Booker, F. L. Kitchens, and C. Rebman, “Evaluating the big
five personality test as a foundation for an online student course
recommendation system,” in Proceedings of the 34th Annual South West
Conference, San Diego, 2007, pp. 287–295.
[16] T. Chamorro-Premuzic and A. Furnham, “Personality predicts academic
performance: Evidence from two longitudinal university samples,” Jour-
nal of research in personality, vol. 37, no. 4, pp. 319–338, 2003.
[17] M. Komarraju, S. J. Karau, R. R. Schmeck, and A. Avdic, “The
big five personality traits, learning styles, and academic achievement,”
Personality and individual differences, vol. 51, no. 4, pp. 472–477, 2011.
[18] S.-J. Chen and E. J. Caropreso, “Influence of personality on online
discussion,” Journal of Interactive Online Learning, vol. 3, no. 2, pp.
1–17, 2004.
[19] D. J. Gallagher, “Personality, coping, and objective outcomes: Extraver-
sion, neuroticism, coping styles, and academic performance,” Personality
and individual differences, vol. 21, no. 3, pp. 421–429, 1996.
[20] A. E. Poropat, “A meta-analysis of the five-factor model of personality
and academic performance.” Psychological bulletin, vol. 135, no. 2, p.
322, 2009.
[21] J. Bobadilla, F. Ortega, A. Hernando, and J. Bernal, “A collaborative fil-
tering approach to mitigate the new user cold start problem,” Knowledge-
based systems, vol. 26, pp. 225–238, 2012.
[22] L. L¨u, M. Medo, C. H. Yeung, Y.-C. Zhang, Z.-K. Zhang, and T. Zhou,
“Recommender systems,” Physics reports, vol. 519, no. 1, pp. 1–49,
2012.
[23] X. N. Lam, T. Vu, T. D. Le, and A. D. Duong, “Addressing cold-
start problem in recommendation systems,” in Proceedings of the 2nd
international conference on Ubiquitous information management and
communication, 2008, pp. 208–211.
[24] R. H. Singh, S. Maurya, T. Tripathi, T. Narula, and G. Srivastav, “Movie
recommendation system using cosine similarity and knn,” International
Journal of Engineering and Advanced Technology, vol. 9, no. 5, pp.
556–559, 2020.
[25] J. E. Smith and D. Von Winterfeldt, “Anniversary article: decision
analysis in management science,” Management science, vol. 50, no. 5,
pp. 561–574, 2004.
[26] X. Su and T. M. Khoshgoftaar, “A survey of collaborative filtering
techniques,” Advances in artificial intelligence, vol. 2009, 2009.
[27] M. Bryon, Ultimate Psychometric Tests: Over 1000 Practical Questions
for Verbal, Numerical, Diagrammatic and Personality Tests.
Kogan
Page Publishers, 2018.
[28] V. Obionwu, D. Broneske, A. Hawlitschek, V. K¨oppen, and G. Saake,
“Sqlvalidator–an online student playground to learn sql,” Datenbank-
Spektrum, pp. 1–9, 2021.
[29] J. Lu, D. Wu, M. Mao, W. Wang, and G. Zhang, “Recommender system
application developments: a survey,” Decision Support Systems, vol. 74,
pp. 12–32, 2015.
[30] C. Bishop-Clark, B. Dietz-Uhler, and A. Fisher, “The effects of per-
sonality type on web-based distance learning,” Journal of Educational
Technology Systems, vol. 35, no. 4, pp. 491–506, 2007.
151
Authorized licensed use limited to: Otto-von-Guericke Universitaet Magdeburg. Downloaded on April 01,2025 at 10:54:50 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.